>> Brian Holt: So
let's get started here and
we're gonna make a file
called carousel.js.
>> Brian Holt: What we're gonna teach
you here is how to do interactions.
Like if I click on something to make
something happen to my interface and
store that in state, and
kind of how it connects those things up.
So we're gonna start here with
Carousel which is a hard word for
me to spell for some reason, .js.
Every time I, it's like one of those
words that when you start reading it and
it just doesn't make sense to you.
You kinda get in your head about,
I don't know, right, at least I do.
Okay, so import React from 'react'.
It's the first thing I'm gonna do up here.
And this is going to be a carousel of
all the various animals photos, right?
So that you can see all of the pictures
that come with each animal.
So class Carousel extends React.Component.
Okay, and then down here you
just export default Carousel.
That's in general how I start every
React component, because I often forget
to put this export default,
it's obviously very key in this process.
So I tend to do that up front.
I'm gonna write a render method up here.
>> Brian Holt: Which we'll
get to in just a second.
The first thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna make our state object.
>> Brian Holt: Photos is
gonna be an empty array.
And active is going to 0.
This is gonna be like the one that's
currently showing to the user is like
the hero image, right, the big image.
So we're gonna start by showing him the
first image in there, the 0 index, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Then I wanna show you
another life cycle method that's actually
brand new to React 16.
This one is called get
derived state from props, so
this is gonna be a static method,
getDerivedStateFromProps.
It's a long one.
And we're gonna destructure this and get
the media object out of this, like that.
Why is this so upset right now?
Cuz I don't have it
render return anything.
That's annoying.
So I'm just gonna
delete that for a second.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's talk about getDerivedStateFromProps.
One, it probably is mostly
self explanatory that you
have props coming in from a parent, and
you want to have some sort of
derived data from the props, right?
What's cool about this
getDerivedStateFromProps is that every
time that the props change,
it's just gonna run this again for you so
you can update the state.
Which I think is pretty cool,
it's just odd math kind of
hooks into that life cycle.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Why do you
have to call it static?
>> Brian Holt: I'm getting there,
good question.
First of all, if I delete this,
it's gonna say,
eventually it will give you an error
saying like, hey that needs to be
static from the linter, but
let's talk about why this is static.
So a static method doesn't actually
exist on the instance of it,
it exist on the class level.
Which means that all carousels on your
page, if you have 200 carousels in your
page, you're gonna have one copy of
this getDerivedStateFromProps, right?
Whereas if I have 200 carousels,
I will have 200 render methods, right?
Each get their own copy
of the render method.
Now the reason for this being,
is that getDerivedState is
a static method that I can
actually just call like this,
Carousel.getDrivedStateFromProps.
I can call it directly on it whereas I
can't call Carousel.render because it
doesn't have a specific render method
until I actually instantiate a class.
So I'd have to say const
c = new Carousel and
then I can say c.render like that.
>> Brian Holt: And the reason being for
this is that, we can do it this way is
because this just takes in some props and
it gives you back state, so
it's not actually operating
on any sort of part interior.
You're not gonna call set state or
anything like that inside of it.
You're just gonna take props and
give back state, that's it.
So that kinda makes sense?
That's what static means
in this particular case.
>> Speaker 3: Would you also want to avoid
using this inside a static function?
>> Brian Holt: You have to.
>> Speaker 3: You have to avoid it?
>> Brian Holt: You will be referring to
the carousel class in general, right?
So if I said like this.render = 5,
I will break every carousel.
>> Brian Holt: So, yes.
>> Brian Holt: Yes,
if you remember from yesterday,
the photos array has all
the various sizes in it, right?
And we had to narrow it down to just
the one type that we cared about.
And so that's what we're gonna do here,
is we're going to
take in all of the photos and narrow it
down to just the photos we wanna have.
So we're gonna say let photos = [ ].
if (media && media.photos
&& media.photos.photo).
>> Brian Holt: photos
= media.photos.photo,
>> Brian Holt: .filter.
I'm gonna say photo and
do an arrow method where we turn
photo['@size']) it's gotta be in quotes.
=== 'pn'.
And then down here return a new
object of photos: photos or
just photos like that.
>> Brian Holt: So again, filter,
remember, is gonna go through, and
it's going to filter out all
of the ones that are not pn.
That's what this little filter
function does right here.
>> Speaker 4: What does pn mean?
>> Brian Holt: That's the size of
photo that we're going to keep,
it's from the API.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 5: You were mentioning how this
is a static because it doesn't change
anything internally.
You're just grabbing data from the props
and providing state, but then even though
you don't set the state here, this isn't
setting your state up on the class level?
>> Brian Holt: So basically React is
calling the static method for you, and
it's using that data to
merge into the instance.
So React is internally using the static
method that you provided, right?
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 5: So then does that,
would that trigger a refresh
like the said state would?
Or I guess it would cuz the props
[INAUDIBLE]-
>> Brian Holt: The props are changing.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And I was trying
to remember where it says this.
So if I save this without static in there,
React in the dev console will say,
hey, this needs to be a static method.
The dev build will,
the production build won't.
I think about a little
break in production.
Yeah, questions.
>> Speaker 3: So
you getDerivedStateFromProps is a specific
magic name?
You didn't just make that up,
and we're gonna reference it.
React is looking for that name.
>> Brian Holt: Correct.
>> Speaker 3: Thanks.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
Yeah, there's a handful of
them that React looks for,
like Component getMount, Component
willMount, getDerivedStateFromProps,
shouldComponentupdate.
Does this actually tell me,
yeah, getSnapshotFromUpdate.
There's a,
>> Brian Holt: forceUpdate,
so there's a bunch of them
that React has built into it.
Now we have that.
Let's go ahead and
write our render method now.
>> Brian Holt: And
do some more destructuring here.
const ,
we're gonna pull that out of state.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're going to return here
div className = "carousel".
Again, it's just I can never
spell that word correctly.
>> Brian Holt: img src = photos,
then we want to grab the active photo for
the primary photo here, active.
.value cuz that's where
the URL is gonna be,
and then the alt is going
to be primary animal image,
or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Our linter says that you
don't wanna put anything like photo or
image or anything like that because it's
redundant because it's an image tag, so
it's obviously an image.
It's always a temptation for me.
>> Brian Holt: div
className="carousel-smaller".
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna do a photos.map here,
photos.map,
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna pull out
both the photo and the index.
Because we need to compare against
is this the correct index or not?
>> Brian Holt: Now what I could do
here is make this a function body and
return right here, or
I can use the implicit return.
And so I'm going to put another
set of parentheses here.
Which is gonna make whatever I put
here an implicit return, right?
And now I can just start
writing in my image tag here.
So key = photo.value because we
know each URL will be unique for
each image, so
that that will work for the key.
The src will also be the photo.value.
className will be equal to,
and then now we need to set
an additional active class, if this is
the currently selected image, right?
Because we want to like
grey that one out and
kind of show that it's the active image.
So we're gonna use a ternary here, and
say index === active, right?
Because if this index here,
if it's the first thing in here, and
active is number one,
then this should return true, right?
So I'm gonna put question mark
to show that I'm doing ternary.
And put 'active'.
And if it's not, then I'll put
>> Brian Holt: So let's
see if I can get this to wrap really quick
so you can see that a little bit better.
I'll put the alt here in just a second.
In fact, let's just do that really quick,
alt =animal thumbnail.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So this right here.
Sometimes people struggle with ternarys,
they're actually quite common in React
because we use expressions everywhere.
So this is a condensed if statement,
right?
This is the conditional,
is index === active?
Then after the question mark,
if it's true, it's the first thing,
if it's not true,
it's the second thing, right?
If this then this else this, make sense?
>> Brian Holt: So if it's active,
then it gets the active class,
if it's not the active one,
then it gets no class.
It's got no class.
>> Brian Holt: You'll see this
a lot with React, stuff like that.
You can also use a library called
className that basically is a helper
library for
kind of condensing these things down
to making it little bit easier to read.
We're not doing very much of this, so
I just preferred to use
a ternary in this one case.
>> Brian Holt: I probably use and
abuse ternary as for being honest.
Any questions about this?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now this is enough to render.
Its not interactive yet but
this is enough for it to render.
So let's go put this in
first to the Details page.
>> Brian Holt: Up here, actually we
can even just start go writing it,
I love this part about VS Code.
First thing instead of div.details,
we're gonna put a carousel component.
And I'm just gonna auto import that from,
>> Brian Holt: Carousel,
and I'm gonna say media = media.
>> Brian Holt: Like that, and I guess
I have to go pull that out as well.
>> Brian Holt: So what I did here,
pulled media out of state, and
then I add at this line
number 53 right there.
>> Brian Holt: You have to import Carousel
at the top which VS Code did for me.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then here at the top,
Carousel got imported from
Carousel right there.
>> Brian Holt: So now hopefully,
we go over here to Adopt Me.
We click on to go see Uta,
we can see all of the Uta's
pictures
>> Brian Holt: So you can see now
that we can see all of the pictures that
are coming in for this particular animal.
It's not interactive yet, right?
We still gotta go make it actually
interactive so you can change it, but
we should be seeing that.